Resources for People Who Are Not Eligible for Free Legal Aid


We are so sorry. Based on your online application answers and the information you provided, you are not eligible for our direct services or legal hotline.* However, below is a list of programs, organizations, and free resources that you may find helpful with your legal matter.  If you would like this information emailed to you, please enter your email address below. 
________________


TOOLS TO HELP YOU REPRESENT YOURSELF


TexasLawHelp.org has free legal information and court-approved forms with step-by-step instructions. Additionally, TexasLawHelp.org has a statewide legal clinic calendar, a legal help finder, and an option to chat in real-time with legal staff who can help you find the information you need.
TexasLawHelp.org LiveChat
Monday - Wednesday | 10:00 AM — 2:00 PM
During operating hours, you'll see an icon that reads, "Click here to chat" on the bottom right of the webpage.
Click here for more information on LiveChat.
Informative Pages on TexasLawHelp
Click here to find general information on accessing public benefits.
Please click here for information and resources relating to Social Security.
Click here for information relating to help with matters such as food or utilities
Texas Free Legal Answers   
On texas.freelegalanswers.org, Texans with low or moderate incomes can work with a pro bono attorney for free. Post a question on the site and an attorney responds via email — it's that easy!
2•1•1 Texas — This program offers accurate, well-organized, and easy-to-find information, local health and human services programs, and other local programs you may find helpful. 2-1-1 Texas is a free, anonymous social service hotline available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year.
No matter where you live in Texas, you can dial 2-1-1 or (877)  541-7905, and find information about resources in your local community. Whether you need help finding food or housing, childcare, crisis counseling, or substance abuse treatment, one number is all you need to know.
Social Security, SSDI, and SSI
Visit the Social Security website to apply for retirement, disability, and Medicare benefits online, check the status of an application or appeal, request a replacement Social Security card (in most areas), print a benefit verification letter, and more. 
________________


FREE LEGAL AID AND NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
                                                                                     
Local Legal Aid Offices — Texas is a big state. We have 254 counties, more than any other state. It takes three local legal aid organizations to serve our state — they are broken up by geographic areas. 
Legal Aid of Northwest Texas 
Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, West Texas, and the Panhandle
(888) 529-5277
Lone Star Legal Aid
Greater Houston and East Texas
(800) 733-8394
Texas RioGrande Legal Aid
San Antonio-Austin Area, Central Texas, and the Texas-Mexico Border
(833) 329-TRLA (8752)
To see the entire list of counties that each organization serves and a map, click here.
________________


LEGAL LINES
Dallas Bar Association
Volunteer attorneys will answer legal questions at no cost from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Wednesdays via a LegalLine clinic, sponsored by the Dallas Bar Association. To participate, complete the online form found here. A volunteer attorney will call the participant to provide up to 15 minutes of free legal information for your legal issue. Space is limited. Registration closes each Tuesday at noon. 
Houston Bar Association
LegalLine is a community service outreach program created by the Houston Bar Association in 1985. This hotline is designed to help the people of Houston receive simple legal advice, answers to legal questions, and referrals to helpful resources over the telephone, at no cost to the caller. Callers may ask questions on any legal topic.
All calls are answered by licensed attorneys. Their volunteer attorneys specialize in a variety of fields. The volunteers remain anonymous.
No appointment is necessary; just place your call while the program is taking place. They accept phone calls only — not in-person visits. Please note that when the LegalLine program is not taking place, there are no attorneys who can be reached at this phone number. Please call (713) 759-1133. With few exceptions, LegalLine takes place on the first and third Wednesdays of every month, between 5 p.m. and 9 p.m.
Lawyer Referral Service of Central Texas
On the first Tuesday of every month, obtaining good, simple legal advice is easy!
Just call (512) 472-8303 for LegalLine, the free legal advice hotline. Phones are answered between 5:30 PM and 7:30 PM. Serving residents of Travis, Hays, Bastrop, and Williamson counties.
LegalLine is sponsored by Austin Lawyer Referral Service and is staffed by attorney volunteers who answer legal questions and give brief legal advice. 
Calls are completely confidential and anonymous. Attorneys who are bilingual (English/Spanish) are also available.
Tarrant County Bar Association
LegalLine is a community service program offered twice a month by the Tarrant County Bar Association. Anyone interested should call LegalLine at (817) 335-1239.
Volunteer attorneys from the Tarrant County Bar Association offer free advice to Tarrant County residents on the 2nd and 4th Thursday of every month from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
As part of the Tarrant County Bar Association’s commitment to the public, local lawyers volunteer two hours of their time to answer questions covering a broad range of topics. In addition to legal questions, individuals can ask for referrals to local legal or social service agencies.